We're now ready to start looking
at our case study example that
demonstrates how Java
Completable Futures can
be applied to the
image crawler example.
In particular, we're going
to focus on the image counter
class and the implementation of
the image counter constructor.
This example shows how many
Completable Future methods
can be applied in a program that
crawls web pages recursively.
As the web pages are
crawled, the program
counts the number of
images on each page,
and each page that's
reachable from the root page.
The root folder can either
reside locally, in other words,
be file system based, or it can
be accessed remotely, and thus,
be web based.
Let's start by looking
at the ImageCounter
class and constructor.
The ImageCounter class is
the heart of this program.
And again, the program can
be found in my EX folder
on my GitHub repository.
The ImageCounter
class will be used
to structure the way in which
we count the number of images
in a recursively defined
folder structure, using many
of the features that are defined
in the Completable Future
framework.
It defines several fields.
The mUniqueIDs field is going
to use a concurrent hash set
in order to cache unique
URIs that have already
been processed so we don't
bother revisiting a URI
that we've already seen before.
We also have
another field called
M0 that stores a completed
future with a value of 0.
And you'll see how
we use this in order
to simplify some
of the logic when
we have to drop out of our
crawl for various reasons.
Here's the image
counter constructor.
The first thing that
we do is we go and get
the root URI of the web page
we want to start crawling.
And this comes through
an option singleton
that can be set
through a command line
option or some other
configuration file.
After we know what root
URI we want to crawl,
we then go ahead and invoke
the count images method.
And that starts
the count of images
at the root URI with
an initial depth of 1,
since it's the root.
And this will return a
future to an integer, which
will be essentially a count
of the number of images
that were reachable.
If something goes wrong,
if an exception occurs,
we're simply going to
return 0, indicating
we didn't count anything.
We then go ahead and
accept the total,
which will hopefully be non-zero
if an exception did not occur.
And we print the total
number of images that are
reachable from the given URI.
We finish up with
a call to join.
This is the only call
to join in the program.
And this will block until all
of the Completable Futures
finish running.
And the reason we
put this here is
because if we don't
have a join call here,
then this program will
simply fall off of main,
and the process will shut
down, and we'll never
get to see the results at all.
As I mentioned before,
you want to try
to minimize the number of calls
to join wherever possible.
But here is one where we
really needed to have it
so that we could get a result.
An alternative
constructor implementation
for image counter could
use the handle method
to deal with exceptions,
rather than exceptionally.
As you can see here,
when handles is called,
if an exception has
been thrown, then we
go ahead and set total to 0.
We know an exception will be
thrown if the ex value here
is non null.
Irrespective of whether or
not something went wrong,
we're going to go ahead
and print the total out.
So if there was an exception,
the total will be 0.
If there's not the exception,
than the total here
will be the result returned
from the count images method.